what are the key mistakes to avoid when
requiring an
[Music]
agency this is Neil
Patel helping you succeed through online
marketing all right so we're going to
talk about critical agency acquisition
mistakes so the last episode we talked
about if agencies are right for rollups
check that one out you know we wanted to
share some mistakes that we made and
hopefully you can sidestep these
mistakes because this is a this is a lot
of wisdom and a lot of money spent yes
the first big mistake is is when you buy
a agency and Eric went through this
whoever you're buying it from the
founders and management team they need
to stick on board for a while if they're
not there for a year or two years it's
really hard for the knowledge transfer
the client
relationships and you're in you know
expect a world of hurt if you're not
retaining the top talent whenever you
acquire because the agency is a people
business the people is really what
matters the people is what's driving the
the revenue the people it's what's
reducing the churn and if you just do a
change of all the people or the main
people you're going to have a lot of
issues you know in one case for the
agencies that we got the founder was
involved with every single account he
was super serving every single account
which is good when you're a smaller
agency that's how you build a lot of
Goodwill with the clients the clients
are like oh my God I love working with
you because you're giving everything you
got now what happened was um you know in
that situation so the founder basically
left immediately right and so because if
the leader leaves then the clients are
like what the heck because the leader on
every single account right and then then
there's also the the lieutenants of the
leader too they all look up to the
leader and what happened immediately
after was like one of the key
lieutenants left right um and so it
starts to become really shaky
immediately because you're integrating
business is chaotic right so you're
inter you're integrating two chaotic
organizations or organisms together it's
it it might not take it's like when you
put a new organ into your your your body
it might not take so it might get
rejected the other thing is you need to
do diligence an amazing diligence at the
beginning before you buy a deal um Eric
went through this mistake he used a
broker and the broker didn't give him
the correct diligence materials like
what is the churn uh what is the LTV uh
you have to look at churn by client
account and revenue and then segment it
per industry how many units or service
items are they selling per client uh
what are the staff on board how long
have the staff been there what does the
staff turn look like like these are all
very important questions what is their
key differentiator in the marketplace uh
how long have they been in business how
do they get their leads is it word of
mouth is it the founder because if the
founder once you give the money they're
not going to stick around forever but on
the flip side if they're getting it
because they're brand name they've been
in the industry forever and they're
getting tons of rfps your risk goes down
drastically all these things are super
important by the way I'll say I'll say
this other thing over here when you are
buying a company the seller always has
the advantage from information
standpoint so you got to take your time
doing the due diligence because you got
to figure out how to decrease they're
always going to have an advantage but
you could decrease that Advantage as you
talk to them then you also need to look
at um multiple agencies when you look at
multiple agencies you'll learn a lot
more about these agencies and it'll help
you figure out which ones are actually
good versus which ones are bad the first
one you talk to isn't necessarily the
best one to acquire you got to kiss a
lot of frogs to find the right one and
when you're kissing these frogs make
sure that they're providing things like
audited financials if they don't you
should have someone review the
financials to make sure they're actually
accurate and there's no fraud in there
have good lawyers in the process this
will all help you avoid mistakes as well
because they'll tell you what to look
out for but these are just some common
things and I really believe it all
starts with diligence when it comes to
avoiding the mistakes from and I
mentioned some of these things like
churn and revenue and make sure that the
businesses are growing and the employees
are there and make sure that they're
selling multiple units uh for of
services per customer ideally they
should be keeping their customers for
more than four years keep that in mind
again ideally they should be keeping
their customers for more than four years
right you don't want someone who's only
keeping customers for a year or two it's
like it's just a revolving door at that
point but these are just some of the
things to look out for and it takes time
to find the good ones now if you have
any questions leave a comment below I'm
here to answer them and help you out if
you enjoyed the video like it share tell
the people about it thank you very much